CNV-16812: Update Start Here page (#46767)
openshift/openshift-docs: virt/virt-learn-more-about-openshift-virtualization.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-learn-more-about-openshift-virtualization"]
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
= Getting started with {VirtProductName}
:context: virt-learn-more-about-openshift-virtualization

toc::[]

You can install and configure a basic {VirtProductName} environment in order to explore its features and functionality.

[NOTE]
====
Cluster configuration procedures require `cluster-admin` privileges.
====

> [id="virt-getting-started-before-you-begin"]

Reviewer: Not part of this PR, but in the section "Preparing your cluster for OpenShift Virtualization":

The sentence: "If your cluster uses worker nodes with different CPUs, live migration failures can occur because different CPUs have different capacities." should read,
"If your cluster uses worker nodes with different CPUs, live migration failures can occur because different CPUs have different capabilities. "

Author: made correection. Thanks @aglitke

== Before you begin

* Review the xref:../virt/install/preparing-cluster-for-virt.adoc#preparing-cluster-for-virt[installation requirements].
* Review the xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-features-for-storage.adoc#virt-features-for-storage[storage features] required for cloning, snapshots, and live migration. See xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[Using a CSI-enabled storage provider] for details.
* Install the xref:../virt/install/installing-virt-web.adoc#virt-installing-virt-operator_installing-virt-web[{VirtProductName} Operator] and the xref:../virt/install/virt-enabling-virtctl.adoc#virt-enabling-virtctl[`virtctl` tool].

[id="virt-getting-started"]
== Getting started

Create a virtual machine:

* Create a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-create-vms.adoc#virt-creating-vm-wizard-web_virt-create-vms[RHEL virtual machine] using the wizard.
* Create a Windows virtual machine:

> ** Create and customize link:https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/virtual-machines-as-code-with-openshift-gitops-and-openshift-virtualization[Windows boot sources]

Reviewer 2: Small nit: Complete sentence is missing a period..

Author: Thanks. Done.

** Create a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-create-vms.adoc#virt-creating-vm-wizard-web_virt-create-vms[Windows virtual machine] using the wizard.

> ** Install xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent.adoc#virt-installing-virtio-drivers-installing-windows_virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent[VirtIO drivers] on the virtual machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Install xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent.adoc#virt-installing-virtio-drivers-installing-windows_virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent[QEMU guest agent and VirtIO drivers] on the virtual machine.
```

Author: Done.

Connect to a virtual machine:

> * Connect to a virtual machine using xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-connecting-to-the-terminal_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[the terminal] or xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[the serial console] in the {product-title} web console.

Author: Done. Thanks!

> * Connect to a virtual machine using xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-connecting-to-the-terminal_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[the terminal] or xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[the serial console] in the {product-title} web console.

Reviewer 2: @bgaydosrh No, we don't need an RN. Terminal connection is working but it's in the wrong place. Dominik is correct, that it's for connecting to pod, not VM.

Serial console is not a workaround. It's just a different console. Here is the current sentence in your preview: "Connect to a virtual machine using [the serial console](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.html#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles), [VNC](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.html#virt-connecting-vnc-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles), or [RDP](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.html#virt-vm-rdp-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles) in the OpenShift Container Platform web console."

I recommend changing it to this:
Connect to a virtual machine using a [serial console](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.html#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles), [VNC](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.html#virt-connecting-vnc-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles), or [RDP](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.html#virt-vm-rdp-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles), for a Windows virtual machine.

* Connect to a virtual machine using SSH:

> ** xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt.adoc#virt-creating-a-service-from-a-virtual-machine_virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt[Create a service] to expose a route for the virtual machine.

Author: Thanks. Corrected link and changed text as requested.

** Use the service to connect to the virtual machine with xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-accessing-vmi-ssh_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[SSH].
* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-controlling-vm-states.adoc#virt-controlling-vm-states[Stop, start, pause, and restart] the virtual machine.

[id="virt-getting-started-next-steps"]
== Next steps

Configure networks:

> * Configure the virtual machine for the xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt.adoc#virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt[default pod network].

Reviewer 3: Something like this would be more precise:
```suggestion
* VMs created from the included templates are using the xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt.adoc#virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt[default pod network].
```

Reviewer 2: I wonder whether we even need this step. If the user has created VMs from templates, they do not need to configure the VMs for the default pod network. It might be better to remove this step.

Author: Cool. Thanks! Done.

> * Configure a Linux bridge network by creating a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks.adoc#virt-creating-linux-bridge-nncp_virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks[creating a Linux bridge node network configuration policy], xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks.adoc#virt-creating-linux-bridge-nad-web_virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks[creating a network attachment definition], and xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks.adoc#virt-vm-creating-nic-web_virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks[attaching a virtual machine to the network].

Reviewer 4: If this is going to be released only in 4.11, we should link to NMState operator and standalone NMState docs http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator.html

Author: I added a reference to this topic in the Linux Bridge bullet in Next Steps.

* Monitor virtualization resources, details, status, and top consumers on the  xref:../virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-reviewing-virtualization-overview.adoc#virt-reviewing-virtualization-overview[*Virtualization Overview* page].
* View high-level information about your virtual machines on the xref:../virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-viewing-information-about-vm-workloads.adoc#virt-viewing-information-about-vm-workloads[*Virtual Machines* dashboard].
* View virtual machine xref:../virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-logs.adoc#virt-logs[logs].

[id="{context}_additional-resources"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms.adoc#virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms[Specifying nodes for virtual machines]
* xref:../virt/live_migration/virt-live-migration.adoc#virt-live-migration[Live migration]
* xref:../virt/vm_templates/virt-creating-vm-template.adoc#virt-creating-vm-template[Virtual machine templates]
* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms.adoc#virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms[Configuring local storage]

> * xref:../virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-automating-management-tasks.adoc#virt-automating-virtual-machine-creation-with-ansible_virt-automating-management-tasks[Automating deployments with Ansible]

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:

- [Automating Windows installations with `sysprep`](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/virt/virtual_machines/virt-automating-windows-sysprep.html)

Author: Done.

* Install the xref:../virt/install/installing-virt-web.adoc#virt-installing-virt-operator_installing-virt-web[{VirtProductName} Operator] and the xref:../virt/install/virt-enabling-virtctl.adoc#virt-enabling-virtctl[`virtctl` tool].

[id="virt-getting-started"]
== Getting started

Create a virtual machine:

* Create a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-create-vms.adoc#virt-creating-vm-wizard-web_virt-create-vms[RHEL virtual machine] using the wizard.
* Create a Windows virtual machine:
** Create and customize link:https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/virtual-machines-as-code-with-openshift-gitops-and-openshift-virtualization[Windows boot sources].
** Create a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-create-vms.adoc#virt-creating-vm-wizard-web_virt-create-vms[Windows virtual machine] using the wizard.
** Install xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent.adoc#virt-installing-virtio-drivers-installing-windows_virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent[VirtIO drivers and the QEMU guest agent] on the virtual machine.

Connect to a virtual machine:

> * Connect to a  xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[a serial console], or xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-connecting-vnc-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[VNC], or in the {product-title} web console.

Reviewer 2: Typos. Change to this:

`* Connect to a virtual machine using a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[serial console] or xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-connecting-vnc-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[VNC onsole].`

We can probably remove the part about web console -- it's a lot of consoles in one sentence.

Author: Done.

* Connect to a Windows virtual machine using xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-vm-rdp-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[RDP].
* Connect to a virtual machine using SSH:
** xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-accessing-vmi-ssh_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[Create a service] to expose the SSH port of the virtual machine to an external network.
** Use the service to connect to the virtual machine with xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-accessing-vmi-ssh_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[SSH].

> * xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-controlling-vm-states.adoc#virt-controlling-vm-states[Stop, start, pause, and restart] the virtual machine.

Reviewer 2: This should not have a bullet. Otherwise, it looks like it belongs to the "Connect to a VM" list.

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-learn-more-about-openshift-virtualization"]
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
= Getting started with {VirtProductName}
:context: virt-learn-more-about-openshift-virtualization

toc::[]

You can install and configure a basic {VirtProductName} environment in order to explore its features and functionality.

[NOTE]
====
Cluster configuration procedures require `cluster-admin` privileges.
====

[id="virt-getting-started-before-you-begin"]
== Before you begin

> * Review xref:../virt/about-virt.adoc#about-virt[About {VirtProductName}].

Reviewer 2: Now that I see this link in context, it might be better to remove it. It seems to me that the user would not be looking at this page if they did not already know about CNV. Telling them that they can control VMs is probably what Ingrid calls "fluff". :-)

* Review the xref:../virt/install/preparing-cluster-for-virt.adoc#preparing-cluster-for-virt[installation requirements].

> * Review the xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-features-for-storage.adoc#virt-features-for-storage[storage types] required for cloning, snapshots, and live migration. See xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[Using a CSI-enabled storage provider] for details.

Reviewer 2: I think "storage features" is clearer than "storage types". Or maybe make it stronger: "Review the storage requirements(link) for cloning, ..."

> * Install the xref:../virt/install/installing-virt-web.adoc#installing-virt-web[Install the {VirtProductName} Operator] and the xref:../virt/install/virt-enabling-virtctl.adoc#virt-enabling-virtctl[`virtctl` tool].

Reviewer 2: Typo: You repeated "Install the".

Author: fixed

[id="virt-getting-started"]
== Getting started

Create a virtual machine:

> * Create xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-create-vms.adoc#virt-creating-vm-wizard-web_virt-create-vms[Red Hat Enterprise Linux virtual machines] using the wizard.

Reviewer 2: Let's stick to the singular for the VM.
I see RHEL used a lot instead of spelling the name out in full. Can you check our style conventions?

Author: Done.

It appears from the style guide that the acronym should be spelled out in first usage per topic, like any other acronym. Ingrid confirmed.

> * Create a Microsoft Windows virtual machine

Author: done.

> ** xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-automating-windows-sysprep.adoc#virt-automating-windows-sysprep[Create and upload a Microsoft Windows boot source].

Reviewer 2: Hmm. To be honest, we do not have good instructions for creating a Windows boot source. Maybe we should link to the [creating boot source](http://file.rdu.redhat.com/bgaydos/CNV-16812/virt/vm_templates/virt-creating-vm-template.html#virt-adding-a-boot-source-web_virt-creating-vm-template) section instead. I think this is a question for an SME.

Author: The Windows process is definitely not the same as the one in the main doc for Linux. We've always referred to the blog post. I've asked Chandler to confirm and instead pasted the two links from our boot source topics to the blogs. As I've said before, I don't know when the Windows process will become more similar to the Linux process, but it's still not there yet.

I'm guessing we have some sort of trademark catch-all that equates Windows to MS Windows, so I'll change it. I did ask Ingrid about it to confirm, still waiting for a ping back.

> ** Create a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-create-vms.adoc#virt-creating-vm-wizard-web_virt-create-vms[Microsoft Windows virtual machines] using the wizard.

Reviewer 2: typo: Create a ... virtual "machine".

** Install xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent.adoc#virt-installing-virtio-drivers-installing-windows_virt-installing-qemu-guest-agent[VirtIO drivers] on the virtual machine.

Connect to a virtual machine:

* Connect to a virtual machine using xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-connecting-to-the-terminal_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[the terminal] or xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-vm-serial-console-web_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[the serial console] in the {product-title} web console.
* Connect to a virtual machine using SSH:
** xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt.adoc#virt-using-the-default-pod-network-with-virt[Create a service] to expose a route for the virtual machine.
** Use the service to connect to the virtual machine with xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-accessing-vmi-ssh_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[SSH].

> Manage a virtual machine.

Reviewer 2: Lead-in sentence should have a colon instead of a period.

If we only have the single bullet point, might be better to change it to a single line: "Stop, start, .... " We probably do not need the "Manage" line.

Author: OK, now it's part of Connecting. I would prefer that over it not belonging to any section of tasks.....

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-controlling-vm-states.adoc#virt-controlling-vm-states[Stop, start, pause, and restart] the virtual machine.

[id="virt-getting-started-next-steps"]
== Next steps

> Network options:

Author: Did all this, but wondering if "Configure networks" might be better (I have a separate bullet for the default pod network config).

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks.adoc#virt-attaching-vm-multiple-networks[Configure a Linux bridge network], in addition to the default pod network.
* Install the xref:../networking/hardware_networks/installing-sriov-operator.adoc#installing-sriov-operator[SR-IOV Operator], configure a xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-configuring-sriov-device-for-vms.adoc#virt-configuring-sriov-device-for-vms[SR-IOV network device], and xref:../virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.adoc#virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network[attach a virtual machine to the SR-IOV network].

> Microsoft Windows virtual machine options:

Reviewer 2: Now that I see this in context, I'm not sure whether it's a good idea for us to get this granular. It's not like we offer a whole bunch of other VM options, like PXE booting or attaching a disk. I'm thinking that it might be better not to include the Windows VM options.

Author: OK, I'll remove the Windows options section. I saved a copy of all the original links in a text file if we need to re-add them.

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-automating-windows-sysprep.adoc#virt-automating-windows-sysprep[Automate Windows virtual machine installations with `sysprep`].
* Connect to a Microsoft Windows virtual machine with xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virt-accessing-vm-consoles.adoc#virt-accessing-rdp-console_virt-accessing-vm-consoles[RDP].

> Monitoring {VirtProductName}

Reviewer 2: Suggest changing this to "Monitor your {virt} environment:", just for consistency.

Author: OK, now I'm confused.... you had said above that you didn't want a section with the one task ---- let me know if that needs to be changed back.

Author: Done.

> * Monitor virtualization resources, details, status, and top consumers on the  Review the xref:../virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-reviewing-virtualization-overview.adoc#virt-reviewing-virtualization-overview[*Virtualization Overview* page].

Reviewer 2: Typo: Remove "Review the".

Author: Done.

> * View high-level information about your virtual machines on the xref:../virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-viewing-information-about-vm-workloads.adoc#virt-viewing-information-about-vm-workloads[*Virtual Machines* page.

Reviewer 2: Broken xref.

Author: Fixed.

* View virtual machine xref:../virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-logs.adoc#virt-logs[logs].

[id="virt-getting-started-additional-resources"]

> == Additional resources

Reviewer 2: Remember that we need use the ["role" tag ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-documentation/modular-docs/master/modular-docs-manual/files/TEMPLATE_ASSEMBLY_a-collection-of-modules.adoc)instead of an anchor ID for "additional resources". I wish I knew why!

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms.adoc#virt-specifying-nodes-for-vms[Specifying nodes for virtual machines]
* xref:../virt/live_migration/virt-live-migration.adoc#virt-live-migration[Live migration]
* xref:../virt/vm_templates/virt-creating-vm-template.adoc#virt-creating-vm-template[Virtual machine templates]
* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms.adoc#virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms[Configuring local storage]

> * xref:../virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-automating-management-tasks.adoc#virt-automating-virtual-machine-creation-with-ansible_virt-automating-management-tasks[Automating deployments] with Ansible.

Reviewer 2: It looks odd to have only this list item end with a period. Suggest you remove the period and put the entire text in the link for consistency.
